Music 192A Studio Exercise 1
Mayank Sanganeria

I set up the Shure KSM-141 mics in omnidirectional configuration. 

Spaced Pair

1. The first setting is such that I am trying to get the hole in the middle. To achieve this, I put the mics really close to the piano and far apart. The distance between the mice is about 6-7 times the distance between the mice and the piano. In this configuration, I made the first recording. The 'hole' configuration sounds a bit like surround sound to me. It seems like the sounds are coming from separate sources on the left and right. Very wide stereo field.

2. This recording was done with a more conventional spaced pair set up. The distance  was 1/3 as recommended. Now it seems like the sound is coming from a single source but it does not quite sound like mono. This is more balanced than the previous one.
real tanticlockwise and was vertically above the other mic. I don't like this better than the proper spaced pair setup. The field is not wide enough.

5. Co-incident but the angle set really high. About 135 degrees apart. (almost facing each other). This has a wider stereo field and I like this better.

6. Now the co-incident but further from the source. Gain was increased for this one. 

7. This is the near co-incident setup. Further from the source. Seems more balanced than the co-incident but had a few weird effects in the middle where it seemed like the source was moving.

8. Near co-incident but closer to the source. Stereo width seemed a little more narrow than when it is closer.

Now I set up the MS pair. Josephson C42 as M, Shure C-414XLS in figure 8 configuration as S.

9. MS is really cool. I love how setting the levels for the S microphone spreads the stereo width. 

10. This recording was me modifying the S levels to modify the stereo width during the song. The stereo width really gets modified when the sliders are moved above 0 dB - not much below that. At max, it feels a bit like the overly spaced omni spaced pair. At about 5 dB is the stereo width that feels most right.
